Add pdp logs doc and fix spellings (#1063)
wso2/docs-choreo-dev: en/docs/monitoring-and-insights/logs/view-pdp-logs.md

# View Private Data Plane (PDP) Logs 

> Choreo offers the capability to access runtime logs through its console. However, in cases where viewing logs for your PDP is not supported by Choreo, you can still view the runtime logs of your components via the log analyzing engines associated with your PDP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choreo offers the capability to access runtime logs through its console. However, in cases where viewing logs for your PDP is not supported by Choreo yet, you can still view the runtime logs of your components via the log analyzing solution provided by your cloud vendor as a workaround.
```

## Prerequisites

> Before you try out this guide, complete the following:

Reviewer 2: please complete the following steps:

Author: We avoid using please in the documentation generally.

> 1. Go to [https://console.choreo.dev/](https://console.choreo.dev/), and sign in using your preferred method.

Reviewer 2: use "log in"

Author: We generally use sign in in the Choreo documentation.

> 2. Select your component from **Components Listing**. This will open the overview page of your component.

Reviewer 2: This will open the **Overview** page of your chosen component.

Author: done

3. In the left navigation menu, click **Runtime** under **DevOps**.
4. Copy the `Release ID` and the `Namespace`. Save it for later.

## View Private Data Plane (PDP) logs with Azure Log Analytics

You can view your PDP logs with Azure Log Analytics by following the steps below: 

1. Go to https://portal.azure.com/.
2. Follow the [Azure Log Analytics Tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-analytics-tutorial#open-log-analytics) and open log analytics of your relative log analytics workspace.
3. Copy and paste the query below into the query editor. 

> 4. Replace the `startDateTime` and `endDateTime` as required. Replace the '<RELEASE_ID>' and '<NAMESPACE>' with the values you copied by following the steps in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Replace the `<START_TIME_STAMP>` and `<END_TIME_STAMP>` as required. Replace the '<RELEASE_ID>' and '<NAMESPACE>' with the values you copied by following the steps in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.
```

Author: done

5. Run the query to extract the relevant logs.

```SQL

> let startDateTime = datetime('<END_TIME_STAME EX: 2023-04-10T07:07:31.684Z>');
> let endDateTime = datetime('<END_TIME_STAME EX: 2023-04-21T07:27:31.684Z>');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let startDateTime = datetime('<START_TIME_STAMP EX: 2023-04-10T07:07:31.684Z>');
let endDateTime = datetime('<END_TIME_STAMP EX: 2023-04-21T07:27:31.684Z>');
```

Reviewer: There was a typo in the source document. I fixed it.

Author: done

LogLevel = iif(isempty(logs['level']), iff(LogEntrySource == 'stderr', 'ERROR', 'INFO'), logs['level']), 
LogEntry = iif(isempty(logs['message']), logs, logs['message']),
KeyValuePair = bag_remove_keys(logs, commonKeys)
| where hasNoLevelFilter or LogLevel in (filteredLogLevels);
let lastTimeStamp = data 
| top 1 by TimeGenerated asc | project TimeGenerated;
let trimmedData = data | where TimeGenerated > toscalar(lastTimeStamp)| sort by TimeGenerated desc;
let selected = iff(toscalar(data | count) == 126, 'trimmedData', 'data');
let choose = (selector:string){   union   (trimmedData | where selector == 'trimmedData'),    (data | where selector == 'data')};
choose(selected);

```

## View Private Data Plane (PDP) logs with Amazon CloudWatch

1. Go to https://portal.azure.com/.
2. Follow the [AWS Analyzing Log Data documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/AnalyzingLogData.html) and open **Log Insights**.
3. Select the relevant region and the relevant log group (the log group string has the cluster name and “/application” appended at the end).
4. Select the required time range. 
4. Copy the query below and paste it into the query editor. 

> 5. Replace the `<RELEASE_ID>` and `<OPTIONAL SEARCH PHRASE>` with the values you copied by following the steps in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Replace the `<RELEASE_ID>` with the values you copied by following the steps in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. Replace `<OPTIONAL SEARCH PHRASE>` with your search phrase or leave it as a empty string if you don't need to filter by a search phrase.
```

Author: done
